Note 1: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies References in these notes to "Biogen," the "company," "we," "us" and "our" refer to Biogen Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Business Overview Biogen is a global biopharmaceutical company focused on discovering, developing and delivering innovative therapies for people living with serious and complex diseases worldwide. We have a broad portfolio of medicines to treat MS, have introduced the first approved treatment for SMA, co-developed treatments to address a defining pathology of Alzheimer’s disease and launched the first approved treatment to target a genetic cause of ALS. Through our 2023 acquisition of Reata we market the first and only drug approved in the U.S. and the E.U. for the treatment of Friedreich's Ataxia in adults and adolescents aged 16 years and older. We are focused on advancing our pipeline in neurology, specialized immunology and rare diseases. We support our drug discovery and development efforts through internal research and development programs and external collaborations. Our marketed products include TECFIDERA, VUMERITY, AVONEX, PLEGRIDY, TYSABRI and FAMPYRA for the treatment of MS; SPINRAZA for the treatment of SMA; SKYCLARYS for the treatment of Friedreich's Ataxia; QALSODY for the treatment of ALS; and FUMADERM for the treatment of severe plaque psoriasis. We also have collaborations with Eisai on the commercialization of LEQEMBI for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease and Sage on the commercialization of ZURZUVAE for the treatment of PPD and we have certain business and financial rights with respect to RITUXAN for the treatment of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, CLL and other conditions; RITUXAN HYCELA for the treatment of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and CLL; GAZYVA for the treatment of CLL and follicular lymphoma; OCREVUS for the treatment of PPMS and RMS; LUNSUMIO for the treatment of relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma; COLUMVI, a bispecific antibody for the treatment of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma; and have the option to add other potential anti-CD20 therapies, pursuant to our collaboration arrangements with Genentech, a wholly-owned member of the Roche Group. We commercialize a portfolio of biosimilars of advanced biologics including BENEPALI, an etanercept biosimilar referencing ENBREL, IMRALDI, an adalimumab biosimilar referencing HUMIRA, and FLIXABI, an infliximab biosimilar referencing REMICADE, in certain countries in Europe, as well as BYOOVIZ, a ranibizumab biosimilar referencing LUCENTIS, in the U.S. and certain international markets. We also have exclusive rights to commercialize TOFIDENCE, a tocilizumab biosimilar referencing ACTEMRA. We continue to develop potential biosimilar product SB15, a proposed aflibercept biosimilar referencing EYLEA. For additional information on our collaboration arrangements, please read Note 19, Collaborative and Other Relationships , to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. Consolidation Our consolidated financial statements reflect our financial statements, those of our wholly-owned subsidiaries and variable interest entities where we are the primary beneficiary. For consolidated entities where we own or are exposed to less than 100.0% of the economics, we record net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests, net of tax in our consolidated statements of income equal to the percentage of the economic or ownership interest retained in such entities by the respective noncontrolling parties. Intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated in consolidation. In determining whether we are the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity, we apply a qualitative approach that determines whether we have both (1) the power to direct the economically significant activities of the entity and (2) the obligation to absorb losses of, or the right to receive benefits from, the entity that could potentially be significant to that entity. We continuously assess whether we are the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity as changes to existing relationships or future transactions may result in us consolidating or deconsolidating one or more of our collaborators or partners. In November 2023 we terminated the Neurimmune Agreement, which resulted in the deconsolidation of our variable interest entity, Neurimmune. Use of Estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that may affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, equity, revenue and expense and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis we evaluate our estimates, judgments and assumptions. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities and equity and the amount of revenue and expense. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue when our customer obtains control of promised goods or services, in an amount that reflects the consideration which we expect to receive in exchange for those goods or services. We recognize revenue following the five-step model prescribed under FASB ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers : (i) identify contract(s) with a customer; (ii) identify the performance obligations in the contract; (iii) determine the transaction price; (iv) allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and (v) recognize revenue when (or as) we satisfy the performance obligations. Product Revenue In the U.S., we sell our products primarily to wholesale and specialty distributors and specialty pharmacies. In other countries, we sell our products primarily to wholesale distributors, hospitals, pharmacies and other third-party distribution partners. These customers subsequently resell our products to health care providers and patients. In addition, we enter into arrangements with health care providers and payors that provide for government-mandated or privately-negotiated discounts and allowances related to our products. Product revenue is recognized when the customer obtains control of our product, which occurs at a point in time, typically upon delivery to the customer. We expense incremental costs of obtaining a contract as and when incurred if the expected amortization period of the asset that we would have recognized is one year or less or the amount is immaterial. Reserves for Discounts and Allowances Product revenue is recorded net of reserves established for applicable discounts and allowances that are offered within contracts with our customers, health care providers or payors, including those associated with the implementation of pricing actions in certain of the international markets in which we operate. Product revenue reserves, which are classified as a reduction in product revenue, are generally characterized in the following categories: discounts, contractual adjustments and returns. These reserves are based on estimates of the amounts earned or to be claimed on the related sales and are classified as reductions of accounts receivable (if the amount is payable to our customer) or a liability (if the amount is payable to a party other than our customer). Our estimates of reserves established for variable consideration are calculated based upon a consistent application of our methodology utilizing the expected value method. These estimates reflect our historical experience, current contractual and statutory requirements, specific known market events and trends, industry data and forecasted customer buying and payment patterns. The transaction price, which includes variable consideration reflecting the impact of discounts and allowances, may be subject to constraint and is included in the net sales price only to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal of the amount of the cumulative revenue recognized will not occur in a future period. Actual amounts may ultimately differ from our estimates. If actual results vary, we adjust these estimates, which could have an effect on earnings in the period of adjustment. Discounts include trade term discounts and wholesaler incentives. Trade term discounts and wholesaler incentives primarily relate to estimated obligations for credits to be granted to wholesalers for remitting payment on their purchases within established incentive periods and credits to be granted to wholesalers for compliance with various contractually-defined inventory management practices, respectively. We determine these reserves based on our historical experience, including the timing of customer payments. Contractual adjustments primarily relate to Medicaid and managed care rebates in the U.S., pharmacy rebates, co-payment (copay) assistance, VA and PHS discounts, specialty pharmacy program fees and other governmental rebates or applicable allowances. • Medicaid rebates: relate to our estimated obligations to states under established reimbursement arrangements. Rebate accruals are recorded in the same period the related revenue is recognized, resulting in a reduction of product revenue and the establishment of a liability which is included in accrued expense and other current liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets. Our liability for Medicaid rebates consists of estimates for claims that a state will make for the current quarter, claims for prior quarters that have been estimated for which an invoice has not been received, invoices received for claims from the prior quarters that have not been paid and an estimate of potential claims that will be made for inventory that exists in the distribution channel at period end. • Governmental rebates: or chargebacks, including VA and PHS discounts, represent our estimated obligations resulting from contractual commitments to sell products to qualified healthcare providers at prices lower than the list prices we charge to wholesalers which provide those products. The wholesaler charges us for the difference between what the wholesaler pays for the products and the ultimate selling price to the qualified healthcare providers. Rebate and chargeback reserves are established in the same period as the related revenue is recognized, resulting in a reduction of product revenue and a reduction in the net accounts receivable. Chargeback amounts are generally determined at the time of resale to the qualified healthcare provider from the wholesaler, and we generally issue credits for such amounts within a few weeks of the wholesaler notifying us about the resale. Our reserves for VA, PHS and other chargebacks consist of amounts for inventory that exists at the wholesalers that we expect will be sold to qualified healthcare providers and chargebacks that wholesalers have claimed for which we have not issued a credit. • Managed care rebates: represent our estimated obligations to third-parties, primarily pharmacy benefit managers. Rebate accruals are recorded in the same period the related revenue is recognized, resulting in a reduction of product revenue and the establishment of a liability which is included in accrued expense and other current liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets. These rebates result from performance-based goals, formulary position and price increase limit allowances (price protection). The calculation of the accrual for these rebates is based on an estimate of the coverage patterns and the resulting applicable contractual rebate rate(s) to be earned over a contractual period. • Copay assistance: represents financial assistance to qualified patients, assisting them with prescription drug co-payments required by insurance. The calculation of the accrual for copay is based on an estimate of claims and the cost per claim that we expect to receive associated with inventory that exists in the distribution channel at period end. • Pharmacy rebates: represent our estimated obligations resulting from contractual commitments to sell products to specific pharmacies. Rebate accruals are recorded in the same period the related revenue is recognized, resulting in a reduction of product revenue and the establishment of a liability which is included in accrued expense and other current liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets. These rebates result from contracted discounts on product purchased or product dispensed. The calculation of the accrual for these rebates is based on an estimate of the pharmacy’s buying or dispensing patterns and the resulting applicable contractual rebate rate(s) to be earned over the contractual period. • Other governmental rebates: non-U.S. pharmaceutical taxes or applicable allowances primarily relate to mandatory rebates and discounts in international markets where government-sponsored healthcare systems are the primary payors for healthcare. Product return reserves are established for returns made by wholesalers and are recorded in the period the related revenue is recognized, resulting in a reduction to product revenue. In accordance with contractual terms, wholesalers are permitted to return product for reasons such as damaged or expired product. The majority of wholesaler returns are due to product expiration. Expired product return reserves are estimated through a comparison of historical return data to their related sales on a production lot basis. Historical rates of return are determined for each product and are adjusted for known or expected changes in the marketplace specific to each product. In addition to discounts, rebates and product returns, we also maintain certain customer service contracts with distributors and other customers in the distribution channel that provide us with inventory management, data and distribution services, which are generally reflected as a reduction of revenue. To the extent we can demonstrate a separable benefit and fair value for these services we classify these payments in selling, general and administrative expense in our consolidated statements of income. Revenue from Anti-CD20 Therapeutic Programs Our collaboration with Genentech is within the scope of ASC 808, Collaborative Agreements , which provides guidance on the presentation and disclosure of collaborative arrangements. For purposes of this footnote, we refer to RITUXAN and RITUXAN HYCELA collectively as RITUXAN. Our share of the pre-tax co-promotion profits on RITUXAN, GAZYVA and LUNSUMIO and royalty revenue on sales of OCREVUS, resulted from an exchange of a license. As we do not have future performance obligations under the license or collaboration agreement, revenue is recognized as the underlying sales occur. Revenue from anti-CD20 therapeutic programs consist of: (i) our share of pre-tax profits and losses in the U.S. for RITUXAN, GAZYVA and LUNSUMIO; (ii) royalty revenue on sales of OCREVUS; and (ii) other revenue from anti-CD20 therapeutic programs, which consists of our share of pre-tax co-promotion profits on RITUXAN in Canada, royalties on net sales of COLUMVI in the U.S. and royalties on sales of LUNSUMIO outside the U.S. Pre-tax co-promotion profits on RITUXAN, GAZYVA and LUNSUMIO are calculated and paid to us by Genentech and the Roche Group. Pre-tax co-promotion profits consist of net sales to third-party customers less applicable costs to manufacture, third-party royalty expense, distribution, selling and marketing expense and joint development expense incurred by Genentech and the Roche Group. Our share of the pre-tax profits on RITUXAN, GAZYVA and LUNSUMIO include estimates that are based on information received from Genentech and the Roche Group. These estimates are subject to change and actual results may differ. We recognize royalty revenue on sales of OCREVUS based on our estimates from third party and market research data of OCREVUS sales occurring during the corresponding period. Differences between actual and estimated royalty revenue will be adjusted for in the period in which they become known, which is generally expected to be the following quarter. Prior to regulatory approval, we record our share of the expense incurred by the collaboration for the development of anti-CD20 products within research and development expense and pre-commercialization costs within selling, general and administrative expense in our consolidated statements of income. After an anti-CD20 product is approved, we record our share of the development and sales and marketing expense related to that product as a reduction of our share of pre-tax profits in revenue from anti-CD20 therapeutic programs. Accordingly, Biogen recorded its share of the expense incurred in connection with the development of LUNSUMIO within research and development expense and its share of pre-commercialization costs within selling, general and administrative expense through December 2022, when regulatory approval was granted by the FDA. Beginning in January 2023 our share of pre-tax profits and losses in the U.S. for LUNSUMIO was reflected as a component of revenue from anti-CD20 therapeutic programs within our consolidated statements of income. For additional information on our relationship with Genentech, please read Note 19, Collaborative and Other Relationships, to these consolidated financial statements. Contract Manufacturing, Royalty and Other Revenue Contract Manufacturing Revenue We record contract manufacturing revenue primarily from amounts earned under contract manufacturing agreements with our strategic customers. Revenue under contract manufacturing agreements is recognized when the customer obtains control of the product, which may occur at a point in time or over time depending on the terms and conditions of the agreement. During the first quarter of 2023 we began recognizing contract manufacturing revenue for LEQEMBI, upon accelerated approval of LEQEMBI in the U.S. Prior to accelerated approval, our share of contract manufacturing amounts related to LEQEMBI were recognized in research and development expense within our consolidated statements of income. Royalty and Other Revenue Royalty and other revenue primarily reflects the royalties we receive from net sales on products related to patents that we have out-licensed, as well as royalty revenue on biosimilar products from our collaboration arrangements with Samsung Bioepis and our 50.0% share of LEQEMBI product revenue, net and cost of sales, including royalties, as we are not the principal. These arrangements resulted from an exchange of a license and utilize the sales and usage based royalty exception. Therefore, royalties received are recognized as the underlying sales occur. Collaborative and Other Relationships We also have a number of significant collaborative and other third-party relationships for revenue and for the development, regulatory approval, commercialization and marketing of certain of our products and product candidates. Where we are the principal on sales transactions with third parties, we recognize revenue, cost of sales and operating expense on a gross basis in their respective lines in our consolidated statements of income. Where we are not the principal on sales transactions with third parties, our share of the revenue, cost of sales and operating expense is recorded as a component of other revenue in our consolidated statements of income. Our development and commercialization arrangements with Genentech, Eisai, Sage and Samsung Bioepis represent collaborative arrangements as each party is an active participant in one or more joint operating activities and is exposed to significant risks and rewards of these arrangements. These arrangements resulted from an exchange of a license and utilize the sales and usage based royalty exception, as applicable. Therefore, revenue relating to royalties or profit-sharing amounts received is recognized as the underlying sales occur. For additional information on our collaboration arrangements with Genentech, Eisai, Sage and Samsung Bioepis, please read Note 19, Collaborative and Other Relationships , to these consolidated financial statements. Fair Value Measurements We have certain financial assets and liabilities recorded at fair value which have been classified as Level 1, 2 or 3 within the fair value hierarchy as described in the accounting standards for fair value measurements. • Level 1 — Fair values are determined utilizing quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that we have the ability to access; • Level 2 — Fair values are determined by utilizing quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in active markets or other market observable inputs such as interest rates, yield curves, foreign currency spot rates and option pricing valuation models; and • Level 3 — Prices or valuations that require inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable. The majority of our financial assets have been classified as Level 2. Our financial assets (which typically include our cash equivalents, marketable debt securities and certain of our marketable equity securities, derivative contracts and plan assets for deferred compensation) have been initially valued at the transaction price and subsequently valued, at the end of each reporting period, utilizing third-party pricing services or option pricing valuation models. The pricing services utilize industry standard valuation models, including both income and market-based approaches and observable market inputs to determine value. These observable market inputs include reportable trades, benchmark yields, credit spreads, broker/dealer quotes, bids, offers, current spot rates and other industry and economic events. We validate the prices provided by our third-party pricing services by understanding the models used, obtaining market values from other pricing sources and analyzing pricing data in certain instances. The option pricing valuation models use assumptions within the model, including the term, stock price volatility, constant maturity risk-free interest rate and dividend yield. After completing our validation procedures, we did not adjust or override any fair value measurements provided by our pricing services as of December 31, 2023 and 2022. Other Assets and Liabilities The carrying amounts reflected in our consolidated balance sheets for current accounts receivable, due from anti-CD20 therapeutic programs, other current assets, accounts payable and accrued expense and other, approximate fair value due to their short-term maturities. Cash and Cash Equivalents We consider only those investments that are highly liquid, readily convertible to cash and that mature within three months from date of purchase to be cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, cash equivalents were comprised of money market funds, commercial paper, overnight reverse repurchase agreements and other debt securities with maturities less than three months from the date of purchase. Accounts Receivable The majority of our accounts receivable arise from product sales and primarily represent amounts due from our wholesale and other third-party distributors, public hospitals, pharmacies and other government entities and have standard payment terms that generally require payment within 30 to 90 days. We do not adjust our receivables for the effects of a significant financing component at contract inception if we expect to collect the receivables in one year or less from the time of sale. We provide reserves against accounts receivable for estimated losses that may result from a customer's inability to pay. Amounts determined to be uncollectible are charged or written-off against the reserve. Receivables from Samsung BioLogics In April 2022 we completed the sale of our 49.9% equity interest in Samsung Bioepis to Samsung BioLogics, which resulted in a receivable of approximately $1.3 billion in cash to be deferred over two payments. The first deferred payment of $812.5 million was received in April 2023 and the second deferred payment of $437.5 million is due at the second anniversary of the closing of this transaction in April 2024. The payments due to us from Samsung BioLogics have been recorded at their estimated fair values through the use of risk-adjusted discount rates. For additional information on the accounting for the sale of our equity interest in Samsung Bioepis, please read Note 3, Dispositions , to these consolidated financial statements. Concentration of Credit Risk Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk include cash and cash equivalents, investments, derivatives and accounts receivable. We attempt to minimize the risks related to cash and cash equivalents and investments by investing in a broad and diverse range of financial instruments as previously defined by us. We have established guidelines related to credit ratings and maturities intended to safeguard principal balances and maintain liquidity. Our investment portfolio is maintained in accordance with our investment policy, which defines allowable investments, specifies credit quality standards and limits the credit exposure of any single issuer. We minimize credit risk resulting from derivative instruments by choosing only highly rated financial institutions as counterparties. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables, which are typically unsecured, are somewhat mitigated due to the wide variety of customers and markets using our products, as well as their dispersion across many different geographic areas. We monitor the financial performance and creditworthiness of our customers so that we can properly assess and respond to changes in their credit profile. We continue to monitor these conditions and assess their possible impact on our business. Marketable Securities and Other Investments Marketable Debt Securities Available-for-sale marketable debt securities are recorded at fair market value and unrealized gains and losses are included in AOCI in equity, net of related tax effects, unless the security has experienced a credit loss, we have determined that we have the intent to sell the security or we have determined that it is more likely than not that we will have to sell the security before its expected recovery. Realized gains and losses are reported in other (income) expense, net on a specific identification basis. During the third quarter of 2023 we sold all of our marketable debt securities and used the proceeds to partially fund our acquisition of Reata. For additional information on our acquisition of Reata, please read Note 2, Acquisitions , to these consolidated financial statements. Marketable Equity Securities and Venture Capital Funds Our marketable equity securities are recorded at fair market value and unrealized gains and losses are included in other (income) expense, net in our consolidated statements of income. Our marketable equity securities represent investments in publicly traded equity securities and are included in investments and other assets in our consolidated balance sheets. Our investments in venture capital funds are recorded at net asset value, which approximates fair value, and unrealized gains and losses are included in other (income) expense, net in our consolidated statements of income. The underlying investments of the venture capital funds in which we invest are in equity securities of certain biotechnology companies and are included in investments and other assets in our consolidated balance sheets. Non-Marketable Equity Securities We also invest in equity securities of companies whose securities are not publicly traded and where fair value is not readily available. These investments are recorded using either the equity method of accounting or the cost minus impairment adjusted for observable price changes, depending on our ownership percentage and other factors that suggest we have significant influence. We monitor these investments to evaluate whether any increase or decline in their value has occurred, based on the implied value of recent company financings, public market prices of comparable companies and general market conditions. These investments are included in investments and other assets in our consolidated balance sheets. Evaluating Marketable Debt Securities for Other-than-Temporary Impairments We conduct periodic reviews to identify and evaluate each investment that has an unrealized loss, in accordance with the meaning of other-than-temporary impairment. An unrealized loss exists when the current fair value of an individual security is less than its amortized cost basis. Unrealized losses on available-for-sale debt securities that are determined to be temporary, and not related to credit loss, are recorded, net of tax, in AOCI. For available-for-sale debt securities with unrealized losses, management performs an analysis to assess whether we intend to sell or whether we would more likely than not be required to sell the security before the expected recovery of the amortized cost basis. Where we intend to sell a security, or may be required to do so, the security’s decline in fair value is deemed to be other-than-temporary and the full amount of the unrealized loss is reflected in earnings as an impairment loss. Regardless of our intent to sell a security, we perform additional analysis on all securities with unrealized losses to evaluate losses associated with the creditworthiness of the security. Credit losses are identified where we do not expect to receive cash flows sufficient to recover the amortized cost basis of a security. Equity Method of Accounting In circumstances where we have the ability to exercise significant influence over the operating and financial policies of a company in which we have an investment, we utilize the equity method of accounting for recording investment activity. In assessing whether we exercise significant influence, we consider the nature and magnitude of our investment, the voting and protective rights we hold, any participation in the governance of the other company and other relevant factors such as the presence of a collaborative or other business relationship. Under the equity method of accounting, we record in our consolidated statements of income our share of income or loss of the other company. If our share of losses exceeds the carrying value of our investment, we will suspend recognizing additional losses and will continue to do so unless we commit to providing additional funding. Inventory Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value with cost based on the first-in, first-out method. We classify our inventory costs as long-term when we expect to utilize the inventory beyond our normal operating cycle and include these costs in investments and other assets in our consolidated balance sheets. Inventory that can be used in either the production of clinical or commercial products is expensed as research and development costs when identified for use in a clinical manufacturing campaign. Capitalization of Inventory Costs We capitalize inventory costs associated with our products prior to regulatory approval, when, based on management’s judgment, future commercialization is considered probable and the future economic benefit is expected to be realized. We consider numerous attributes in evaluating whether the costs to manufacture a particular product should be capitalized as an asset. We assess the regulatory approval process and where the particular product stands in relation to that approval process, including any known safety or efficacy concerns, potential labeling restrictions and other impediments to approval. We evaluate our anticipated research and development initiatives and constraints relating to the product and the indication in which it will be used. We consider our manufacturing environment including our supply chain in determining logistical constraints that could hamper approval or commercialization. We consider the shelf life of the product in relation to the expected timeline for approval and we consider patent related or contract issues that may prevent or delay commercialization. We also base our judgment on the viability of commercialization, trends in the marketplace and market acceptance criteria. Finally, we consider the reimbursement strategies that may prevail with respect to the product and assess the economic benefit that we are likely to realize. We expense previously capitalized costs related to pre-approval inventory upon changes in such judgmen
